Quite a key to approximately two or three weeks.
Yes sir.
Were there other occurrences between those two dates that would be
addressed in the committee in surprise, they might shift light upon the issues involved in this kind of...
I think there were moments of Jenkins, for instance, there was that first conference of Mr. Stevens on November 13th and things like that.
But I'm sure that that'll be covered on course examination and in keeping with your
examination, to me that we just keep with sound.
About the security of about two charges against Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams.
Well sir, as you say charges, I want to give you a ride there.
We call it on the 8th of May.
Our allegations are answered.
That means that is taking.
Then we go to November 24th.
Yes.
I'm Mr. Cohen.
I want to ask you this one question about November 17th.
And that is the date of a photograph that's been named in this chair.
Yes.
Were you present when that photograph was taken by one?
I was.
How to ask you whether or not on what occasion...
I see McGuire, how can you visit?
Yes.
Which is the date before this?
As you were, they're not on that occasion.
The Secretary of the Army requested that his photograph be taken with a shine.
What happened sir was we got off the plane and the private shine was standing over with General Ryan.
From officers I believe.
The photographer was there.
Mr. Stevens called private shine over to his side.
I don't suppose he could have come over at the end and called over.
And private shines that next to him they were taking pictures.
And Mr. Stevens made a comment about being glad to get a picture of himself and private shine.
That did occur.
That's really close, yes sir.
I had no remarks in the Stevens address particularly to the photographer.
He asked me if I could take a picture of him.
He called, I don't remember very clearly, the equal date from where Dave was standing over to his side.
To say a fair and a fair.
Dave of course was there in the Army and was there a sign?
And physically had four dates.
Yes.
Being a sign of that post.
I think from that now to November 24th and 25th and with particular reference to...
As a proposed law firm this afternoon I want you to tell the members of the committee what you know about that.
And what you said about it.
What you said about removing general law.
Yes.
I didn't even see the events on November 24th.
Mr. Adams came to New York for the open hearing on Fort London.
Apparently he received some communication from Mr. Stevens about general law.
I don't remember what time of the day it was first there, but Mr. Adams spoke to me.
And I said to me I had some moves which I am going to have to break gently to Senator McCarthy.
Right.
And from what it was, he said to me, we are now at a point where we are going to get down to business about getting rid of law.
That word, I think he said he had heard from Mr. Stevens and that they plan to relieve general law of his command by the next day.
Mr. Adams, actually what I thought Senator McCarthy's reaction would be.
Did he see why they were removing general law of him?
At that point he did not go into any details.
So he knew that I know why they were removing him.
And they are not seen from time to time, discussed the removal of general law of him with him from October 14th to 15th up to his date.
So he had not discussed the actual removal of general law.
He had made a very derogatory remarks about general law and indicated that general law was in the dark house with Mr. Stevens.
I didn't heard who this was.
I got much better way from him.
I'm sure that this pleasure of Mr. Stevens.
They were.
Now we want to know about the statements Mr. Adams made on November 24th.
The first thing he said in November 24th, he might have given detail, I don't know, was that Mr. Stevens had made concrete plans to remove general law.
That Mr. Stevens had this very much on his mind and he was very anxious to get rid of general law and intended to do so, hope to be able to do so the next day.
But that he first wanted Mr. Adams to move to the next day to send him a car.
And why not?
What are not?
Senator McCarthy was made a public issue out of it and would make a public issue out of general law.
Just miss.
Mr. Adams asked me my opinion in the matter.
I gave it to him.
What was your opinion?
My opinion is my opinion was that Senator McCarthy was known that it was a reprival against general law for his cooperation with the committee and for the contract which he has taken and that Senator McCarthy would not like it.
Very well.
Anything else said on that so this was cool?
Yes.
Mr. Adams said that the measure was really on and he just had to give an answer to Mr. Stevens and had to bring Senator McCarthy.
So, some stuff about that.
He had to bring Senator McCarthy around and get Senator McCarthy to agree not to make a public fuss about it if they reweave general law.
Then there was nothing more that day.
Now what was that?
Stop night, by recall correctly.
Senator McCarthy was delivering a coast-to-coast television speech at 11 p.m. on the Harrys extra white case.
Mr. Adams asked during the afternoon of sometimes where the speech was being held.
He said he wanted to come up and talk to Senator McCarthy.
We told him where it was being held.
As a matter of fact, I think I gave him the wrong address.
But eventually he, unintentionally, he did get to the right place and he heard the Senator speak.
And after this speech he walked over with us to some other place and on the way he started asking Senator McCarthy whether or not Senator McCarthy wouldn't promise not to make a public fuss about it if they kicked out general law.
Mr. Cohn did you get the impression that the sole and exclusive mission of Mr. Adams on Medicaid and to New York was to discuss the general law.
My impression I got that the general was that Mr. Adams and all the probability would have been in New York anyway.
For all the public hearings I thought much.
That being in New York, a secretary even said told him why and told him or something, told him to give us that opportunity to work on Senator McCarthy on the work.
Now I want you to talk about the conversation between the Saudis and Senator McCarthy.
It's hard to meet a different agency between the conversation that night and the next day because it continued right on through.
So if I get lumped those two periods, I forget it.
It's a night of the 24th and the morning and noon of the 25th I could tell you what happened.
You may do so.
Senator McCarthy, question Mr. Adams in detail about why they were trying to give it a general law.
Mr. Adams said well there are all kinds of stories about them and all kinds of allocations and he made a speech in which he said that some universities are not careful about what they teach in certain subjects.
Something below in those ones.
Senator McCarthy was not particularly persuaded by this.
Mr. Adams said to Mr. Adams and Senator McCarthy, just don't keep me about it.
I know why you're getting rid of them.
I know what you've been saying about them and I know why you're getting rid of them.
I think it's all wrong.
So John wanted to know what's going on in the past.
What's going on with that?
When you see John, John Adams.
Yes.
He wanted to know some things about what Senator McCarthy would do about it.
Just how much of a public trust Senator McCarthy would make about it if they got General Lawton out.
Senator McCarthy, I don't think he decides to answer about that.
He said well, to be effective, I don't know just what I tend to about it.
I can't promote or demote the General Law.
I can't give him a rank or anything else.
All I can do is complain and I don't know whether I can complain before my own committee or whether I've got to complain to the own services committee or whatever it might be.
But I think it would be a very unfortunate thing for Mrs. Stevens to do because it would be a signal to other people in the arms.
Throughout the country, that a great General was being punished for cooperating with a committee investigation designed to out Communists from secrets, places.
And I don't think it should be done.
That is my advice.
That afternoon, November 25th, although there was a little talk a lot of discussion back and forth about it, Mr. Adams.
The war is over a period of how long was the war ranging, but during the 24th and up until the early afternoon of November 25th.
Now, there's coal you heard the Secretary's statement with Mr. Smith, that Lawton was a great General that you're not.
I said, can you say that he was with all times most cooperating with the committee and his work in fading out these Communists and Suburbs, if he was?
Do you know of any reason why he's in the Secretary of John Adams, where the one who's to relieve General Lawton of his command with that sense of his claim?
He said to the retaliatory measure for his cooperation with your committee.
The reason was they were displeased with him because of his cooperation with our committee and because of the fact that he had taken the strong stand on the misunderstanding of the security and communist problem by people in the arms.
Now, I didn't mean to touch you off Mr. Cohn in your recitation of all of the conversations occurred between Mr. Adams, you and the Senators.
On November 24th and 25th, then you say that he's extended to be part of the night.
So the night of the 24th and on the 25th up until the early afternoon before the hearing of the 25th, it ended just before the hearing when Mr. Adams held a palm, Mr. Steve, in my presence.
Do you know what? As a matter of fact, the General Lawton was not really in his command.
I know that he has not been formally relieved of his command, sir. I think that as a technical matter, they've seen to it he's not around much now.
The enormous agreement was not promoted to him that he was not given the permanent assignment of the ranking now.
Mr. Jenkins, when we were writing back on Fourth Amendment, I think it was the night of October 22nd, although I could see you up on the date.
The chairman and I were writing with General Lawton in his car.
We have been holding hearings in the month and during the day and we were going to hold hearings in New York at night.
General Lawton came back to sit in at the hearing and there was a discussion between the General and Senator McCarthy about the General's status.
The Senator told the compliment to General on the wonderful cooperation he had given us and told the General he thought the General was a great American because of the firm's family he had taken on these communist and security risks.
General Lawton told the Senator, yes, but worked for the effect yet, but that stand will cost me my promotion and I'll be lucky if I survive much longer out here at Fourth Amendment.
Those words tend to be somewhat prophetic.
You know, the court, Mama, I don't know just what his status is now.
I heard that they told him he was sick when he felt well and that he was assigned to a...
No matter if he's out here, he's going to read hospital.
Well, I heard they first sent him to a hospital and after he got to the hospital and was feeling fine, they told him to take sick leave from the hospital.
And apparently he is now on the land side here, sick leave from the hospital and he was not permanently assigned to President Wright.
As far as he was not, he was the nice promotion.
Mr. Cohn, what is the significance?
For the benefit of those who do not know and I'm sure there are many who do not.
In not assigning a General, let's let us say a Major General, to the rank of his criminal Major General.
Sir, General Watten was on a list for promotions of the permanent rank of Major General.
That promotion was denied to him.
If it had been granted, it would have made it possible for him to stay in the Army for an additional period of time.
By denying the promotion, it means he will have to retire that much sooner.
But do you know how much additional time it would have meant to General Love to stay in the Army?
I do not know the exact number of years.
You don't know that it's from 20 years. I don't know how I see you.
I don't know the exact number.
Mr. Cohn, what do you know about the telephone conversation?
In the early part of November, in which Miss Adams called General Love and on the telephone and made certain requests of him,
with respect to withdrawing of the General's recommendation for the suspension of certain subversives.
I know sir that they were registered in the Fifth Battle Night.
Yes I did. You were admitted to that?
He did. What do you know about that?
Only you find out about it.
I don't think I found out about that particular home wall until these hearings.
But I did know Mr. Jenkins was not only Mr. Adams, but very his other emissaries from the Secretary's office and from the Army
had been going to General Lawton and trying to tell him to keep quiet and keep his nose out of things and had been making suggestions that certain security risks should not be suspended in various other things along the lines.
I was aware of that general situation. I didn't know about that particular phone call until this hearing.
I'll ask you this question. Did you hear me ask Mr. Adams whether or not he called General Love and in the early part of November, 1953,
and asked in substance whether or not General Love and could see his way clear to withdraw certain cases, which he General Love and have recommended for removal of both security risks.
At which point General Love and could see his to do so, stated that he would not.
And if the Secretary of the Army would have to take the responsibility for such withdrawal, did you hear that testimony?
I did. Do you know of any reason? Why Mr. Adams, counsel for the Army, would make that...
I'll not say extra, would make that request of a General of the Army in the sense of these plans such as Fort Mama.
I would rather not comment on that.
Now Mr. Cohn, have you told all you know about the Lawton for what it is?
No, on November 25th, that's about two in the afternoon or so. I don't know the exact time.
Mr. Adams, after a final attempt to get ten in the McCarthy to say he would not make an issue out of this, called up Mr. Steven on the telephone.
He called Mr. Steven from the anti-room of the hearing room at the United States Courthouse Room, Court Room 110.
And I heard Mr. Adams tell Mr. Steven that Senator McCarthy was, in effect, Senator McCarthy thought it would be very unwise to relieve General Love and the Senator wasn't running the thing running the Army, but he certainly felt the physical advice was being sought.
It was a bent state and things along both lines. It was a friendly conversation with Mr. Adams, with friendly, but the Senator was firm, and it was...
Now that's the substance of what happened on November 25th, and for the time being, but not for long, the Lawton situation was dropped.
Well, with the Lawton situation, it will about it began Mr. Coombe's guess.
Queen, and then the Law of Circumstance, but over...
The Lawton situation was mentioned a number of times between then and the 16th of December, in the 17th of December.
Not whom?
By Mr. Adams. I had no conversations with Mr. Steven about it.
What connection was his role in it?
The connection was, they were working on Senator Mr. Adams, for working on Senator McCarthy to get the Senator's promise of silence if General Lawton were released of his command.
Still trying to get him released?
Oh, very, very much so.
How to and including you say to the 7th of December 17th?
I think it won't even pay a set. I have personal knowledge of events on December 17th.
I want you to tell this committee all of the personal knowledge you have on the particular area of incline, Rinais Floyd, not the removal of this general.
Yes, sir.
As in a hurting on the 25th of November and coming right on down, I can give you no specific dates or conversations between November 25th and December 17th.
There were conversations. Mr. Adams kept threatening for assuring that the Senator would say nothing, wouldn't make an issue out of it, that the General Lawton were removed.
The thing came up again very actively on the 16th and 17th of December.
On the 16th, I know that Mr. Adams talked to Senator McCarthy directly about it and told Senator McCarthy I believe that there was a new target date set by Mr. Stevens for removing General Lawton.
And that that target date was January 1st.
Where was that conversation?
I was not saying so. I believe it took place in the United States courthouse in all about courtroom 110, where an executive session on Fort Monmouth, for Communism and Defense Plan was underway.
The Senator, he imparted that knowledge to me by the Senator.
Yes, by the Senator.
And that was as late as the 17th.
That was the 16th.
Now, on the 17th, I have personal knowledge.
All right, what occurred on the 17th? We're still talking about this General.
The 17th, Mr. Jenkins, which is the day of that famous luncheon in Carlight Up Town, which Mr. Adams described so diligently as he might recall.
On that day, in the law, I want you to describe this.
Visiting me, you can.
It's home. I'm not as good at it, sir.
I like not the division of opinion on that the...
A certain thing.
Sir, what happened here, not entirely in our teaching, and I don't think the Council for the Army would be accused of such.
All right, sir.
But now, I want you to tell what statements were made by Mr. John Adams on the 17th day of December about removing this great General from Fort Monmouth.
I will tell you something when he said in what we did about it.
On the morning of the 17th at some time, Senator McCarthy told me that Mr. Adams was added again and wanted, was pressing the Senator for a promise of silence, a General Lawton's worry move.
The Senator was becoming pretty much disturbed about it at that point, and frankly, sir, so was I.
Now, let's get his statement, Mr. Cohn. This has been going on since.
Well, the first thing they have on the board is...
That's right. Am I right?
Yes.
You can November the 17th, or more than a few months' time.
So, will.
Now, on the 17th, after the Senator told me that Mr. Adams advised him of a new target date for removing General Lawton.
We all went out to lunch, and we went over to Gersner's restaurant to have lunch.
I was present. The chairman was present.
I suppose Frank's car was there, and at the beginning of the luncheon, two friends of the two personal friends of Senator McCarthy were there.
They left shortly after the luncheon commenced.
I don't know if they heard of all of the conversations they might well have.
Senator McCarthy has told me about Mr. Adams' plan for General Lawton, and the others have preceded me to the restaurant.
I brought the subject up.
As I think Mr. Adams completed on the stand, I did.
I said that Mr. Smith Adams remodeled to be a fact that I understand that you're after General Lawton again.
And Mr. Adams confirmed that and said that January 1st was the new date which had been set for General Lawton's removal.
He said that a successor to General Lawton had already been picked, and that he and Mrs. Stevens were determined to get General Lawton's past, the UK who was, etc.
I believe he did, sir. I don't recall the name.
I haven't taken the time. If I do go over with the available General, or whatever it was, I might be able to do that.
He did mention a name.
Now, Mr. Adams made it very clear that they meant business about it this time.
We had, following that, a very animated discussion and argument about this whole situation.
I told Mr. Adams that I thought the way they were going after General Lawton was a perfectly disgraceful thing.
That his only sin, as far as I know, had been met of fighting communism, fighting at heart, and of cooperating with this committee, and of telling the truth when he testified before the committee on where the blame belonged for not doing anything about the security risks in the right-all laboratory.
What other, if any, accusations that Mrs. Adams make against this general at that time, he thought of any.
He thought it out by saying that there were other things too.
Did he... particularize and tell you what the worst?
Yes. He mentioned this university thing again, I believe. He said General Lawton's judgment has not been good.
That some of the people General Lawton has selected for his staff had made a poor impression upon Mr. Adams, and he started off giving those reasons.
Senator McCarthy stopped Mr. Adams while he was giving the reasons, and the other state is that General Lawton had made a poor impression upon him.
Mr. Adams said that some of the people General Lawton had picked for his staff, or had made a poor impression on General Lawton.
He had made a clear... and more poor impression on Mr. Adams.
Mr. Adams has made it clear that General Lawton personally had made a poor impression on Mr. Adams.
I think he said that General Lawton had been... he had spent the General Lawton on a couple of occasions with General Lawton.
I've been in his office and had not impressed Mr. Adams.
Hello Mr. Cohn while we're pursuing that subject.
Do you know of any jurisdiction whatsoever that any of the lawyers who are the senior from Wisconsin had with respect to the promotion of the new motion, or the removal of an officer in the army?
The only jurisdiction in this case there was putting the case to the people of the United States.
As a matter of fact there was a discussion about that right then and there.
Mr. Adams thought of giving these reasons.
Senator McCartney cut him off.
With work for the effect, well John, there are always a lot of reasons you can give when you want to do something.
But you may know secret out of the fact before that you and Mr. Cohn don't like General Lawton.
Hey Cohn, just go tonight you heard him testify before us.
That until we came along, no effect of action has been taken.
Would you ever hear of a Secretary of the Army going to a United States Senator to get his advice about the promotion or the motion of the removal of one of his generals in the army?
Nothing.
Until it's matter of theme of... I recall that.
All right, Mr. Cohn, we're talking about now the 17th day of December in New York City.
Now at that lunch in Senator McCartney interrupts Mr. Adams and said let's...
Nothing to the effect, let's save a lot of time here John, there are always a lot of reasons you can give when you want to do something.
But you can frank with us before and General Lawton cooked his course when he told the committee that until we came along he was stuck in the army.
He was stuck with the security risks and it's only after we came along that some people in your place woke up.
Mr. Lee, the Senator went on and told Mr. Adams on that.
Mr. Adams was pretty frank about it. He said to us, well how would you people like it if somebody working for you told us that you weren't doing a good job?
You wouldn't want him around, would you? And thanks to that effect.
See, he that Mr. Adams then brought up the point of what the Senator would do about it.
On that, the Senator said that he did not know what he could do about it, but he couldn't...
What if the Secretary or in any way change action of the Secretary in removing General Lawton?
That it would seem to him, well if the beginning he said, I don't know what I can do about this.
I pointed out that Senator McCartney then, so he could do about that what he had done about the case of a state department employee and another investigation we have.
This employee testified before our committee when he got back to his job, he found that it had been changed and he no longer had a good job, but he was not having the pavement again.
Senator McCartney called the Under Secretary of State General Smith before the subcommittee and asked him whether he thought it was right to take a repriple on someone who was cooperated with the committee.
General Smith did not think it was right, the man was reinstated, and I pointed that out to Senator McCartney and I told the Senator that unless we could protect in some way for people who are cooperated with us in this type of work in the exposure of the state.
I told the Senator that we were in the exposure of cognizance and security risks, that our committee, the investigating committee, would not long be in business, no with the FBI or any agency like that.
I think the Senator was in agreement with those youths. We left the restaurant, we got into the car, Mr. Adams was going through this train.
I'm sure I ought to drive him up to the station. He wanted to go into that car right, Mr. Jenkins.
Mr. Cohn, we're not ready for the car riot except as it relates to any conversations on the part of Mr. Adams with respect to the meeting this gentleman.
Well, it was continued. Mr. Addy in the car. Mr. Adams said he had a gift, Mr. Stevens, an answer, and he wanted to give him the right answer.
General Lawton had a call January 1st, but he and Mr. Stevens did not want General Lawton around any longer.
Who was President of that car riot? Senator was there, I was Air Frank College there.
Before.
Now, Mr. Adams, Air-Francée, Mr. Adams left the car and I might say he left in a lot happier circumstances than he described here.
The Senator and I in Frank continued the discussion.
Senator McCarrick, he was pretty much exercised about this at the time.
And he told Frank and myself that he had taken just about enough on this rotten situation, and that he was trying to communicate directly with General Lawton and tell the General that he would stand behind him and if necessary, I believe would call General Lawton before the Committee in public session and bring out.
The General was, although a great General and one within an outstanding job here, was being made the object of a reprival because of what he had done.
The Senator was leaving on a make of speech, he was going to catch a plane, and he told me to make sure that the message got through that not to rely just on him calling General Lawton, but that I, myself, should contact General Lawton or General Lawton A, and let the General know.
Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams were trying to do the General Lawton.
The 18th and 18th being President Leaching Corps.
Then Lieutenant Corps and now Captain Corps, that is right.
Which is his role?
I did.
William, that very night.
What will it say?
I placed a telephone call to General Lawton.
I don't believe I reached him.
I did reach him.
Lieutenant Corps, I have a phone slip of the telephone call to General Lawton,
dated December 17, 1953 at the, I think, six something in the evening made from my home phone in New York to Fort Monk.
In some stumps, what message did you give them Lieutenant Corps, Mr. Col.
I told Lieutenant Corps that he had a lunch in a discussion with Mr. Adams.
That he's apparently Mr. Adams and Mr. Stevens was very determined to take it out on General Lawton, and that Senator McCopy wanted General Lawton to know.
That the Senator believed in General Lawton, and then what he had done, and that the Senator would recommend that the committee and the public know the story if General Lawton were removed.
And I told Lieutenant Corps that I was instructed by the Senator to furnish full details of what was important to General Lawton.
So Lieutenant, I would like to talk to the General about this.
May I do that and may I call you back?
Mr. Col. that's the first time, dear Mali, that you are the Senator or anyone on your staff.
Head up.